[CSS] Animation - Add missing content and other edits (#20250)
mdn/content: files/en-us/web/css/animation/index.md

```

The `animation` property is specified as one or more single animations, separated by commas.

Each individual animation is specified as:

- zero, one, or two occurrences of the {{cssxref("&lt;time&gt;")}} value

- zero or one occurrences of the following values:

  - {{cssxref("animation", "&lt;single-easing-function&gt;", "#single-easing-function")}}
  - {{cssxref("animation", "&lt;single-animation-iteration-count&gt;", "#single-animation-iteration-count")}}
  - {{cssxref("animation", "&lt;single-animation-direction&gt;", "#single-animation-direction")}}
  - {{cssxref("animation", "&lt;single-animation-fill-mode&gt;", "#single-animation-fill-mode")}}
  - {{cssxref("animation", "&lt;single-animation-play-state&gt;", "#single-animation-play-state")}}

- an optional name for the animation, which may be `none`, a {{cssxref("&lt;custom-ident&gt;")}}, or a {{cssxref("&lt;string&gt;")}}

The order of time values within each animation definition is important: the first value that can be parsed as a {{cssxref("&lt;time&gt;")}} is assigned to the {{cssxref("animation-duration")}}, and the second one is assigned to {{cssxref("animation-delay")}}.

> The order of other values within each animation definition is also important for distinguishing an {{cssxref("animation-name")}} value from other values. If values in the animation definition can be parsed for properties other than `animation-name` and if those properties are assigned values for the first time in the shorthand, then they must be accepted for those properties and not for `animation-name`. Furthermore, when serialized, default values of other properties must be output in at least the cases necessary to distinguish an `animation-name` that could be a value of another property and may be output in additional cases.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The order of other values within each animation definition is also important for distinguishing an {{cssxref("animation-name")}} value from other values. If values in the animation definition can be parsed for properties other than `animation-name` and if those properties are assigned values for the first time in the shorthand, then they must be accepted for those properties and not for `animation-name`. Furthermore, when serialized, default values of other properties must be output in at least the cases necessary to distinguish an `animation-name` that could be a value of another property and may be output in additional cases.

While neither an `animation-name` nor `animation-duration` is required to be declared within an `animation` shorthand property, both are needed for an animation to occur.
```

Reviewer: The example on this page animates a box-model property (margin-left) which is a bad practice. We should change that to a background-position animation or a transform.

Reviewer: looks good. just these two comments.

- `<single-animation-play-state>`
  - : Determines whether the animation is playing or not. The value must be one of those available in {{cssxref("animation-play-state")}}.

## Description

The order of time values within each animation definition is important: the first value that can be parsed as a {{cssxref("&lt;time&gt;")}} is assigned to the {{cssxref("animation-duration")}}, and the second one is assigned to {{cssxref("animation-delay")}}.

> The order of other values within each animation definition is also important for distinguishing an {{cssxref("animation-name")}} value from other values. If values in the animation definition can be parsed for properties other than `animation-name` and if those properties are assigned values for the first time in the shorthand, then they must be accepted for those properties and not for `animation-name`. Furthermore, when serialized, default values of other properties must be output in at least the cases necessary to distinguish an `animation-name` value that could be a value of another property and may be output in additional cases.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The order of other values within each animation definition is also important for distinguishing an {{cssxref("animation-name")}} value from other values. If values in the `animation` shorthand can be parsed as a  value for an animation property other than `animation-name` then the value will be applied to that property and not as the `animation-name`. For this reason, some recommend including the `animation-name` value as the last component when using the `animation` shorthand. This holds true for all `animation-name` values when using the `animation` shorthand to include multiple comma-separated animations.
```

Reviewer: I tried to 3rd-grade-reading-level this.

Author: The improvements look good. Thanks. I have tweaked the last sentence a bit.

An `animation-name` value is not required to be declared in the `animation` shorthand property. If no name exists, there is no animation to apply on any of the properties.

> When the `animation-duration` value is omitted from the `animation` shorthand property, the value for this property defaults to `0s`. In this case, the animation will still occur (the animation start and end events will be fired) but no animation will be visible.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When the `animation-duration` value is omitted from the `animation` shorthand property, the value for this property defaults to `0s`. In this case, the animation will still occur (the [`animationStart`](/en-US/docs/Web/API/Element/animationstart_event) and [`animationEnd`](/en-US/docs/Web/API/Element/animationend_event) events will be fired) but no animation will be visible.
```

do we want to link to the section in animation-duration?

Author: `animation-duration` is linked just a few paragraphs above.

## Accessibility concerns

Blinking and flashing animation can be problematic for people with cognitive concerns such as Attention Deficit Hyperactivity Disorder (ADHD). Additionally, certain kinds of motion can be a trigger for Vestibular disorders, epilepsy, and migraine and Scotopic sensitivity.

> Consider providing a mechanism for pausing or disabling animation as well as using the [Reduced Motion Media Query](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/@media/prefers-reduced-motion) to create a complimentary experience for users who have expressed a preference for no animated experiences.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Consider providing a mechanism for pausing or disabling animation as well as using the [Reduced Motion Media Query](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/@media/prefers-reduced-motion) to create a complimentary experience for users who have expressed a preference for minimal animated experiences.
```
reduced motion doesn't mean no motion.
